.TH man 1 "15 June 2001"

.SH NAME
man \- display UNIX style reference manual pages

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR man " [" \-w "] [" \-a "] [" \-c "]"
.BR "" "[" "\-p \fIpager\fR" "]"
.BR "" "[" "\-r \fIroff\fR" "]"
.BR "" "[" \fIsection\fR "] " \fItitle\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B man
locates and displays the reference manual \fItitle\fR from the designated
reference \fIsection\fR. If no \fIsection\fR is specified, the whole guide
is searched for \fItitle\fR and the first occurrence of it is displayed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
ALL mode. Display all manual pages with matching \fItitle\fR.
.TP
.B \-c
Invoke \fBbsfilt\fR(1) with the formatted text to filter out
character formatting. This option is compatible to the original
UNIX man command, where \fBcol\fR(1) is used, which is missing
in Cygwin tools as of this writing.
.TP
.BR \-p " " \fIpager\fR
Select paging program \fIpager\fR to display the text. Programs
like \fBmore\fR(1), \fBpg\fR(1), \fBcat\fR(1) or whatever custom
pagers are available may be used.
.br
The used default pager \fBless\fR(1) may be overridden by setting
the environment variable \fBPAGER\fR to the name of a suitable
program. The \fIpager\fR defined with this option overrides
both of these.
.TP
.BR \-r " " \fIroff\fR
Select \fIroff\fR formatter to format the manual. Programs like
\fBawf\fR(1), \fBcawf\fR(1) or \fBnroff\fR(1) may be used.
.br
The used default formatter \fBawf\fR(1) may be overridden by
setting the environment variable \fBROFF\fR to the name of a
suitable program. The \fIroff\fR defined with this option
overrides both of these.
.TP
.B \-w
Print pathname of found entries only.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B PAGER
Default pager used to display formatted text.
.TP
.B ROFF
Roff formatter used to format manual page.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR awf "(1), "
.BR cawf "(1), "
.BR bsfilt (1)

.SH BUGS/ERRORS
None.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBman\fR was written by Udo Munk (munkudo@aol.com)
