                      DMTXLS: DooM TeXtures LiSter v1.1
                      =================================
                                July 19, 1995


DMTXLS is a command-line utility on Unix and DOS (source code included) to
generate cross-reference lists of the wall textures and flats used in levels
in DOOM, DOOM ][, Ultimate DOOM & Heretic, the 3D action games by id Software
and Raven Software.  The lists include the number of times each texture is
used, in verbose mode the SideDef/Sector numbers where they are used, and in
verbose-line mode the LineDefs corresponding to those SideDefs as well.  It's
a handy little tool for PWAD developers, especially when applying custom
textures.

It is derived from DMPSMU/DMPSMAP, which is in turn derived from DEU, the
Doom Editor Utility.
--
Frans P. de Vries (FPV) | Snail: de Wilmskamp 83, 7552 GW Hengelo, Netherlands
Email: fpv@xymph.iaf.nl | Voice: +31 (74) 916 034 | DOOM][+GUS1M == ImMeRsIoN!



INSTALL
=======

Installation of the package is straight-forward. Unzip the package (which
you have probably done already to read this file ;)  preferably recursively
(default in Info-UNZIP, requires '-d' option to PKUNZIP). Go into the source
directory and check the Makefile for the C compiler and its flag and include
definitions. Set CC to your ANSI C compiler, CFLAGS & LDFLAGS as desired and
if necessary, INCLUDES to your directory with ANSI C header files. If you're
on a little endian system, leave DEFINES as is, otherwise select the other
one.  Then type 'make'.

Find a way to copy your DOOM{1,2}.WAD or HERETIC{1}.WAD file to your Unix
system and copy the shell scripts 'alltxts*.sh' as well as the just 'made'
executables into the same directory for easy access to the WAD file. And
presto, you're all set to list those textures galore! :-)


NOTES
=====

All texture names are mapped to uppercase before sorting, because DOOM and
DOOM ][ occasionally use the names in lower- or mixed case.

Anyone know a more complete list of big/little endian systems?  Please email
me.  The same goes for ideas for new features and other improvements.


CREDITS
=======

My thanks go to the following people for their work:

- the folks at id and Raven for creating such wonderful games!

- Brendon J. Wyber <b.wyber@csc.canterbury.ac.nz> and Raphaël Quinet
  <quinet@montefiore.ulg.ac.be> (and everyone working with them) for
  creating the DEU editor and Per Allansson <c91peral@und.ida.liu.se> and
  Per Kofod <per@ollie.dnk.hp.com> for porting it to a sane C compiler ;)
  And: if they hadn't released the source with it, this utility wouldn't
  exist (or at least not in the same form :-)

- Matt Fell <msfell@aol.com> for the indispensable DOOM Specs, especially
  for the v1.666 preview!

- Richard Ward <rrward@netcom.com> for beta testing; heck, he practically
  commissioned me to write this thing! ;-)

- for supplying compilation info for the Makefile:
  Hans Peter Verne <h.p.verne@kjemi.uio.no> on Ultrix4.3/DECstation
  Michael J. Salay <salay_mike@ae.ge.com> on HP-UX 9.0/HP710 station
  Uwe Girlich <girlich@aix520.informatik.uni-leipzig.de> for DJGPP/GO32 help


RESTRICTIONS
============

  The source in the DMTXLS package should not be used to create a utility
  that can modify the main WAD files; you're better off with DEU v5.21 GCC
  anyway. It is illegal to use the source in this package to modify the
  shareware version of DOOM or Heretic.

  If you derive another utility from this package, name it something else
  and give some credit to the original author(s).

  If you distribute the DMTXLS package, please distribute the original ZIP
  file unmodified and under the same name.


TRADEMARKS
==========

  DOOM, DOOM ][ and Ultimate DOOM are trademarks of id Software Incorporated.
  Heretic is a trademark of Raven Software Incorporated.

  DEU is copyrighted by Brendon J. Wyber and Raphaël Quinet.

  DJGPP/GO32 is Copyright (c) DJ Delorie, 24 Kirsten Ave,
                              Rochester NH 03867-2954


COPYLEFT
========

  DooM TeXtures LiSter utility (DMTXLS)
  Copyright (C) 1995  Frans P. de Vries, Hengelo, The Netherlands

  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
  Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

